thank you to Mubi for sponsoring this
video click the link in the description
below when it comes to the well-known
expression fake it till you make it I
think that there are a few people that
have faked it more down Lee and more
convincingly than Frank Abagnale jr. as
we know in a five-year span this runaway
teen he successfully impersonated a
schoolteacher an airline pilot doctor
and even a lawyer and over the same span
of time he also forged and cashed in
millions of dollars in fake checks now
as it often is in the magical world of
cinema the story of Frank Abagnale it is
not only a story of crime it is also a
story of inspiration from which we can
learn because in many ways we relate to
Frank we even look up to him and one of
the reasons for this is his Redemption
arc hi I'm Frank Abagnale supposed to
start work here today ultimately Frank
gets caught and he spends multiple years
in French Swiss and American prisons but
after this he is recruited by the FBI
and he has been working with them to
this day catching other forgers and
developing systems and strategies to
protect people from fraud I owe my
country 800 times more than I can ever
repay it over these past four decades
that is why I'm at the FBI today 32
years after the federal court order
expired requiring me to do so secondly
there is the fact that Frank was just a
kid when he ran away from his parents
divorce it was finding a way to survive
that let him on this wild adventure the
difficulty of the divorce on a young kid
makes his actions more forgivable
divorce is a very devastating thing for
a child to deal with and then have to
deal with the rest of their natural life
but beside that audiences are always
attracted to the romantic outlaw role as
Spielberg himself says we all sometimes
fantasize about could I do that the con
artists in a way appears to occupy a
space between the romantic antihero and
unconscionable criminal and although he
went down a path of crime for a while
Frank is also clearly incredibly gifted
and one of his gifts was developing the
skill set of fortune checks that are
indistinguishable from real ones but
even more than that he is also gifted in
his charisma and knowing how to present
himself in understanding human
psychology he knows how to influence and
convince people with an unshakable
confidence that of course in reality is
based on nothing hey Murph yeah call the
LAPD again I don't want people walking
through my crime scene and it is this
aspect of Frank's story that I want to
focus on you know what I think if he's
always win Frank is a Mickey Mantle now
because the other teams can't stop
staring at those damn pinstripes
appearance is everything that is one of
the first lessons that Frank learns when
he is 15 and his father asks him to
present himself as a chauffeur in order
to impress the bank and present himself
as a successful businessman after Frank
needs to go to public school because his
father's business fails he avoids being
bullied through impersonating a
substitute teacher an impersonation he
successfully upholds 4-week just because
he's dressed somewhat like a teacher and
he has the confidence and pravara to
impersonate one he changes a position of
possible victimhood into a position of
authority
I always sell Farah Vera excuse me why
aren't you reading look the part act
apart and you can watch your life become
reality and it is this truth that
becomes an essential part during his
years of crime hello
I assure this is the soup right pod it's
the exact suited Warner movie okay I'll
take three certainly mr. Fleming now the
first thing he does when he runs away is
change his age on his driver's license
this immediately improves the impression
he makes as a real Frank notes it got
him higher wages for the same sort of
work because 26 year olds simply are
expected to have a higher salary than a
16 year old I was actually born in April
of 1948 but I dropped the four converted
it to a three and that made me 26 years
old I walked around applying for the
same type of work people gave me a
little more money a few more hours but
even then it was very difficult to make
ends meet but ultimately the real
breakthrough came when he saw a pilot
leaving a hotel surrounded by
stewardesses the status and the
adoration that the uniform brought
convinced Frank that that was what he
needed to be taken seriously and
therefore to be able to cash in his
false checks and he was right clothes
doing away make the man in any
environment people scan and filter
automatically and subconsciously for
what is value generally this is status
power wealth and physical attraction
those who possess or even just seem to
possess these traits often get a
different kind of intention and
treatment for better or worse and this
is what Frank realized to use and to
misuse Frank is not only convincing
because he looks the part he also has
the confidence and charisma to act the
part my name is Allen secret service
your boy just tried to jump out the
window my partner hasn't been custody I
don't know what you're talking about
you think the FBI are the only ones on
this guy I mean come on whenever people
assume he is able to do something or he
is something he goes with it and he
convinces everyone that he is what he
pretends to be what are you my dad head
to Miami
yes yes yeah I'm the Devon now at this
moment the question becomes how is this
a good thing I mean ultimately Frank is
a criminal who lies and steals and no
matter how convincing he is he
ultimately suffers an incredible
downfall however there are ways we can
learn from the qualities he possesses
without becoming criminals ourselves a
core quality that Frank has won which
many of us struggle with is confidence
the word conman is actually derived from
the word confidence man which was first
used by dr. James Houston reporter for
the New York Herald to describe samuel
thompson the OG con man as it were who
would talk to upper-class gentlemen and
once he gained some trust he would ask
them if they had the confidence to loan
him some money or if it could borrow
their watch and of course after they did
he wouldn't return so key to any con
including Frank's this is confidence and
the best way to gain confidence is to be
exuding it yourself most of us we
struggle with confidence because well we
are also aware of our own shortcomings
and something many of us deal with is
impostor syndrome where even if you have
developed a certain skill set or a
certain profession and your peers tell
you that you are doing a good job you
still you kind of feel like you are an
impostor now what Frank has seems to be
the exact opposite of imposter sinner he
has no skills to back it up but
nevertheless he has the confidence to
act like he does
and it is kind of incredible how far
this gets him and how many doors opened
for him are you my dad head now this
just shows how important it is to
project confidence in my forrest gump
video I talked about the power of having
no ego and being humble in developing
your skillset but maybe the opposite can
also be true
those who confidently call their shots
who are maybe even overconfident often
get further before I went to medical
school I passed the bar in California
practice law for one year then I decided
why not try my hand at pediatrics
in personal development culture we often
talk about having no ego and about the
importance of being egoless and it is
true that ego can be incredibly
destructive but if you use it carefully
and if you don't identify with it too
much ego can also be a good thing
ego is good dumb ass it's the reason
that guy wants you to be a surgeon it's
a reason that she is borderline
attracted to you and it's the reason
that she so desperately wants to marry
you pays me well you're headed home if
we doubt ourselves constantly others
will doubt us too when we are extremely
confident in ourselves and our abilities
others will be as well and doors will
start flying open most people undersell
their own abilities both to themselves
and to others and it is kind of a
defense mechanism
if we don't present ourselves as
incredibly confident and skillful we can
also not disappoint ourselves and others
when we fill so we either fear failure
or the responsibility that success
brings we play not to lose instead of
playing to win now of course you can
Bluff your way out of everything without
any skillset to back it up and in that
case there will be a big downfall but
many of us are overly doubtful and
careful in our own abilities that we
actually have developed in fear of this
potential downfall so are you a good
surgeon I'm capable capable I'm not sure
what I want the surgery
Gardi a word and to be clear confidence
is one thing effectively assessing your
own abilities it's great that I'm saying
it can even be good to be overconfident
to sometimes put yourself in situations
where you say you can do something while
you're actually not entirely sure you
can bottom line in medicine half of
pulling it off is believing you're the
biggest smartest badass at the doctor to
ever walk these halls you want to see
how you end up if you don't believe that
the reason for this is that it gives you
the opportunity to rise to the occasion
that it puts you in an uncomfortable
situation where you are forced to grow
because no matter how well we prepare we
will still feel this doubt this fear of
letting others down when we step outside
of our comfort zone but when we accept
an opportunity even if we aren't sure we
are ready and able it will force us to
rise up to our own potential and even if
we feel realized it was often still a
better outcome than to not have taken
the opportunity at all
of course don't do anything criminal of
course but present yourselves the best
way you can and sometimes when you can
be humble or you can be overconfident
maybe it can actually pay off to say
hell yeah no problem I can definitely do
that and then you do it Frank how did
you cheat on the bar exam admission
I didn't gene I studied for two weeks
and I pass thank you all for watching
guys and thank you to mu B for
sponsoring this video and now for those
of you that don't know mu B is an online
curated cinema that at any point in time
they only have 30 movies available and
there's actually really special because
it's occurred at cinema so these are
like the hidden gems of cinema that you
otherwise wouldn't watch so if you are
movie lover then you can pick something
special out every day and every day they
add a new movie and every day they
remove a movie so at any point in time
the website only as 30 movies available
and you know when you go on Netflix you
are often just scrolling and scrolling
along looking for something to watch and
then you end up just rewatching some TV
show you've already seen and with Mubi
you actually get hand-picked
international cinema so you know you can
watch something special and something
that you otherwise wouldn't watch so if
you want to try it out for free you can
go to movie.com slash storytellers or
you can just click the link in the
description below and you can try it out
for 30 days it really helps out the
channel and it is an amazing service so
thank you for watching and I'll see you
guys next time
you